### Application Description

The application consists of a client-server web service application developed using Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS). An interface is used to specify the methods defined within the Server, and which the corresponding Client uses during runtime. A text file is used to specify a list of rooms and their corresponding capacities.
A server class implements the functionality of the methods defined in the interface. During runtime, direct communication between the client and server will not be established, but will be connected via an interface. When methods of the interface are called by the client class, the functionality of the methods defined in the server class will be carried out on behalf of the client.
Connection between the client and server sides is established via document style SOAP-based web service endpoint. When the publisher class is executed, a WSDL file in created locally via a specified available port (8787). The generated WSDL file defines a target namespace and a service name. These are retrieved via a specified URL address in the client class, with a XML qualified name being used to connect the target namespace with the service name. A service establishes the port of the interface class, thus communication is established successfully.
Similar to the previous assignment, the application is launched in the form of a Java Swing GUI. The user may select the desired operations listed under „services‟ on the menu bar. Upon the selection of an operation, a method corresponding to that selected operation is called by the client, which was made available via the Server and specified in the Interface, which carries out the appropriate execution to complete the operation. The result is returned to the client and displayed within the GUI interface.
Extra booking functionality was created for this assignment, which permits a number of users to be created. A user may book an available room, at a specific time. If another user wishes to book the same room, which is unavailable, the user is added to a waiting queue. If the original booking for the room is cancelled, the user currently first in the waiting queue is automatically given the booking for the room. A notification is supplied to the user to inform them that they have obtained the room.
Please note, in order for the booking of rooms to be carried out, at least one user must be generated by the application. This can be accomplished by generating a user in the “Add User” section of the application. Also, a notification will only be displayed in the
“Notification” section of the application when a room has been cancelled and automatically supplied to the next awaiting user.


### Problems Encountered

Throughout the development of this application, there were various problematic issues that occurred. In the previous assignment I created a customised object that was generated and would invoke successful operations being carried out on the server side and being passed back to the client side. This resulted in my text file containing all rooms being read in from the server side but failing to be transferred to the client side.
In order to resolve this issue, I restructured my application in order for the client side to never see the customised object. The server side invokes the operation requested and returns the final result directly to the client.


### Building Instructions (Windows)

The following are instructions to be followed to successfully build the application:

# Terminal 1 (Server)

1. javac com/sean/soap/*.java
2. java –classpath . com/sean/soap/BookingPublisher

# Terminal 2 (Client)
1. java –cp . com/sean/soap/client/*.java
2. java –cp . com/sean/soap/client/BookingClient


## Please Note:
port 8787 was selected at random
